1.	Describe your demonstrated ability to serve as a change leader to influence continuous/process improvement strategies and develop and achieve long and short-term goals including experience in identifying or inspiring innovative approaches. Provide specific examples.

While at Symantec, working as a Technical Support Manager II, I have rolled out a new Knowledge Management System to replace a home-grown system called Atlas with Inquira Knowledge Management System.  This change required a global adaptation of the application where “Change Management” was an essential step.  I have spearheaded the process that included various steps.  First, define the change management process, identify Change Agents and Change Leads from every team across the globe.  Second, implement Change Management training that included KCS (Knowledge Centric Support) process.  Change agents were assigned a role to migrate the knowledge content from the existing Atlas Knowledge Management System to Inquira.  This step involved, importing the content, review the content, re-write/edit the content and committing the content to the knowledge base.  Change Leads will review the content, approve, or return for additional edits with comments.  The KCS process is a Continuous Improvement Process based on Kaizen principle.  When a support engineer takes a customer case, they are expected to assume that they do not know the solution even if they do and search the Knowledgebase for the solution.  Find the article that is applicable and review the article and apply to the issue.  While doing so, make necessary corrections to the content.  This process will be repeated as the product goes through its evolution, every iteration the product goes through the change, the applicable knowledge content needs to be revised.  Version control systems to the knowledge content is part of the change management process.  This is how we, as a team managed the change control process and, I was a key player of the change management team.

2.	Describe your demonstrated experience in each of the following areas: examination services, Recruitment/Hiring, and HR Information Systems.

While at Delphix, I was handed over the responsibility to rollout product training to the support teams.  This involved a certification process that included testing to qualify the trainee. I was tasked to create a database of questions and answers to be used in the randomized question selection process for the examination.  The scope of the examination was limited to the support team.  Training was developed using Adobe Captivate where Power Point slides and Adobe based documents were converted to training content.  Videos were recorded and imported into Adobe Captivate and used for the training. 

As a manager, over the course of my tenure with each company, I have hired, trained, mentored, and coached support personnel.  Over the course my tenure I have developed job descriptions, resume screening, candidate selection process, interview criteria, selection of interview panel, pre-interview and post interview checklist, review, and acceptance process.  Furthermore, while at Delphix I have developed a process to structure the support organization to include tiered structure, performance appraisal process and promotional criteria.  In addition, I have implemented Performance Improvement Process (PIP) as part of performance management.  In doing so, I have collaboratively worked with the Human Resource Business Partner (HRBP) and executed the process successfully.  The process that was rolled out still being used at the company although I am no longer with the company.

While at Symantec, we have rolled out Workday Performance Management system and I’ve effectively utilized the system to track Job Requisitions, Job Descriptions, Candidate Applications, Candidate Screening, Interview Status and Hiring.  I’ve full familiarity of the selection and hiring process.  


3.	Describe your experience and expertise in building highly effective and customer service-oriented teams and employing techniques of organizing and motivating professionals. Provide specific examples.

With over 20 years of experience in the private sector as a manager and leader, I have had the opportunity to work for small start-up companies to multi-national corporations.  Where in case of start-ups with virtually no infrastructure and process, I was able to create the process, define business objectives, put together infrastructure in place, build teams and execute on business goals.  For example, while working at Rainfinity and Jareva, when I joined there was nothing to start with.  I have created support labs, rolled out CRM solutions, rolled out knowledge portals and put together process in place.  Hired top talent who now are at the epitome of their careers as Directors and VP’s, all from the foundation I’ve laid out and, of course with their hard work!  I am a process driven manger, when I see it broken, I fix it, if not, create the process.  At Delphix, I have rolled out Support Readiness training.  My technique to successful support is “Empowerment”.  By enabling people to think freely and come up with creative solutions to solving complex problems, you earn their trust.  Building trust and mutual respect creates a happy team.  Happy team create happy customers.  First order of business is, define what success should look like and then build process around it!

4.	Describe your experience in performance management and progressive discipline, including counseling staff and initiating disciplinary or adverse actions. Provide specific examples.

Performance Management is very important to me.  At Symantec, I had the opportunity to create annual performance goals and define the process to recognize performance and create the reward system.  My method to managing performance is not necessarily throwing money at people but, appreciate their efforts immediately after the event that produced results and thank them for their efforts.  Openly appreciate and discretely hold the individuals accountable.  If things are not going well, find out the root cause of the problem and address the source of the issue as opposed to take a generalized approach.  I do not believe in throwing people under the bus, having candid conversations and discuss how collectively we can work to resolve the issues.  I was trained on “Crucial Conversations”.  I use metrics and measurements to recognize and reward top performers and help those underperforming to improve.  If those who are under performing, discuss the issues with them and give them an opportunity to improve.  If that fails, put them on a “Performance Improvement Plan (PIP)” and document conversations and outcomes.  When at the end of the agreed upon timelines, things do not improve, I work with the Human Resources Business Partner (HRBP) and Legal, to manage the employee out.  Having under performers on the team affects their morale and productivity.  

While at Symantec, I had an employee who was gaming the system.  He would constantly go on paid short-term leave of absence, return to work for a week or two and again do the same thing.  This cycle repeated few times.  When questioned, he had no good explanation to the behavior.  Team’s morale was impacting, folks on the floor were wondering what is going on?  I have given ample opportunities to the individual to rectify the behavior, when that failed, I put him on PIP (Performance Improvement Plan) and managed him out.  Team was openly appreciative of my actions and subsequently the more of the team went up!


5.	Describe your unique qualifications or attributes that you believe will contribute to your success, if selected for this position.

I am passionate about the work I do!  I connect with people, I build relationships, I work cross functionally to bridge gaps in business process.  I use Kaizen approach to Continuous improvement and Total Quality Management (TQM).  There is no one size fits all, every situation and every process call for a unique approach to problem solving.  I think out of the box and come up with solutions to fix problems before things get out of control.  My approach to solving problems is by being proactive as opposed to reactive, that is how I get the business done!

Thank you for the opportunity to present myself for this role and I am super excited about the opportunity and looking forward to serving the people of California!
